The Ultimate 2-Week Oman Itinerary: Perfected by the Sloths
The Sloths are proud to present the absolutely perfect, tried and tested two week itinerary for Oman. Six months in the making, we firmly believe that there is no better itinerary out there for you adventure seekers. Trust us – this trip inspired Max’s final university thesis. 

In this guide, we outline the 14-day journey through the epic wilderness of the Sultanate of Oman that we undertook in September 2023, whilst also discussing all the tips and tricks we learned during our incredible adventure.

Welcome to our step-by-step guide to the best two weeks of your life.


Stunning
Why Oman?
An unfamiliar country to many, the Sultanate of Oman (as it is officially known) is ideal for the adventurous camping enthusiast – 1000’s of kilometres of pristine beaches, spectacular mountains, beautiful deserts, amazing wadis and extremely friendly and helpful locals. Oman is also considered one of the safest countries in the world with an extremely low crime rate and is often referred to as the ‘Switzerland of the Middle East’.

Oman is perfect for renting and travelling via 4×4 with a roof tent. As far as we know, this is the only guide on the internet that suggests traveling Oman in a 4×4 with a rooftop tent. While others mention camping with a regular tent, we promise this is the far superior option.

Roof tents are easy to set up (we did it in under 3 minutes) and can be taken anywhere your 4×4 can go. They provide extra safety from wild animals or insects since you’re above ground (unless they fly, of course). Plus, you get a large, comfortable mattress and an excellent view! This is the way to see the real Oman. 

What to Know Before Travelling to Oman
As we said before, Oman is one of the safest countries in the world. We’ve put together a special post with all the info you need to know (you can find it here). But in the meantime, we thought we’d share some of the most important things to look out for:

Only attempt this between September and April. We went in September, and down low it was borderline, but in the mountains it was actually cold!
As you probably know, Oman is an Islamic country. Most Omanis follow the Ibadi sect of Islam, so the laws and customs here are very different from those in the West. We kindly ask that you follow and respect the local customs, laws, and religion. This is something to keep in mind all year round, but especially during the holy month of Ramadan and in religious areas, such as the beautiful Sultan Qaboos Mosque in Muscat. It’s also illegal to drink in public, although tourists can buy and drink alcohol in licensed establishments. It’s also worth noting that it’s technically illegal to share a hotel room with someone of the opposite sex unless you’re married.
Oman is really easy to visit. There are direct flights from the UK etc, or cheaper layovers through Qatar and the UAE. You can stay for up to two weeks without a visa, and you can even drive on your regular licence. No need to worry about getting an international one!
When it comes to driving, Oman is a easy! (Just be prepared for a bit of a hustle and bustle in Muscat.) You’ll find left-hand drive cars on the right, and speeds are in kmph. Plus, speed cameras are pretty lenient, with a +20kmph limit.
Finally, remember that the closer you are to the equator, the earlier the sun sets! In September it was dark by 1930 – bear this in mind when planning your days! Setting up your tent in the dark is no fun!
We’d highly recommend the Brandt guidebook on Oman as an excellent guidebook. We got ours on Amazon.
Itinerary
Fly into Muscat (1 Night)
Pick up your 4×4 hire car with rooftent from Active Oman – NOT sponsored, they were genuinely amazing. 
Spend the next 9 days driving and sleeping in beaches, mountains and deserts
Return to Muscat (1 Night)
Return car and take the night bus to Salalah (or fly)
Pick up hire car from Salalah Airport 
Spend 3 days 2 nights driving in the wonderful Dhofar region
Fly home from Salalah airport ☹

10 Day Northern Route (Clockwise)

3 Day Salalah/Dhofar Route
Suggested Sloth Itinerary Day 1: Muscat & Mutrah
Start your journey by flying into Muscat International Airport (MCT). After collecting your Sim card (we paid £16 for more than enough data each), make your way to your accommodation. You have two main options:

Public Bus: An affordable choice, costing around 500 baisa (approximately 1 GBP/1.30 USD per person). Check Google Maps for routes and schedules.
Otaxi: Oman’s version of Uber. We found Otaxi to be reasonable, especially for shorter trips. For instance, the 15km ride to our hotel cost around 5 OMR (10 GBP).
Accommodation in Muscat
If you (correctly) plan on hiring a 4×4 with a tent, you technically have your accommodation covered. However, due to Omani visa regulations, we recommend starting your trip with a stay at an affordable hotel to settle in and prepare for your adventure.

So, where should you stay in Muscat? Considering their prices, we were blown away by the quality of the hotels in Oman. Here are some of our faves…

Budget Option: Gulf Dream Hostel (20 GBP/night)

A new and highly-rated hostel in a central location by the sea. Ideal for budget travelers.

Mid-range Option: Ramada Encore Muscat (45 GBP/night)

Although we usually go for budget options, we chose this modern Western hotel due to its awesome value for money. It exceeded our expectations and even features a cool (for Max at least) car lift for the parking area.

High-end Option: W Hotel Muscat (120 GBP/night)

We haven’t stayed here yet, but the Telegraph rates it as the best hotel in Muscat. We’ll take their word for it!


Our V6 Pajero
Day 1 Continuted... Collecting Your 4x4 and Explore
Next, head to Active Oman to pick up your 4×4 with a roof tent. We recommend taking an Otaxi for the 5 USD ride. This will mark the true start of your unforgettable Omani adventure.

Great, so now you have your 4×4 and rooftent- hopefully it is a beast, like our v6 Mistubishi Pajero. 

With keys in hand, and assuming it is around midday, we would recommend to check out the following for the next few hours. 

The Omani Beaches! Do it, go for a drive along the beach, and perhaps even a little swim. Best to test out your sand driving abilities early on….
Mutrah Corniche – Once you have settled into your car and seen the coast, head to the famous Mutrah Corniche, where you can shop for local souvenirs in the famous Mutrah Souq. This includes, of course, buying the traditional Omani headdress (if you are a man), known as a Kumma, a colourfully embroidered brimless round cap, and the accompanying Massar. Max bought his for about $10 USD, and bargaining is allowed here! If you have time, visit the beautiful Mutrah Fort.
Have your first Omani meal in Mutrah – we went to a restaurant called Royal House on the recommendation of our hotel, which was tasty but relatively expensive (to be fair, we had just come from Egypt, so our price expectations were a little skewed). We opted for the Mandi Curry, a typical Omani curry (£8.45). Then back to bed for a good night’s rest.
Sloth Suggestion: Parking in Oman is 99% free and easy. However, in Mutrah there were only private car parks – these have to be paid for via a website using an Omani number. We were unable to get it to work, but a kind family offered to pay for us. .


Mia & Mutrah Corniche
Suggested Sloth Itinerary Day 2: Muscat and Beyond
For day 2, we suggest waking up early, checking out of you hotel and doing the following:

The utmost priority in Muscat must be, in our opinion, visiting the truly spectacular Sultan Qaboos Grand Mosque, open 0800-1100 Monday – Thursday. Featuring the world’s largest chandelier, we recommend getting a guide at the entrance (around $10 USD). After the tour, they will take you into a cafe area where you will be given the chance to learn about Oman’s unique Ibadi Islam, whilst eating some lovely dates. If you are interested to learn why Oman is the way it is (i.e so safe, this is where you will learn!). 
Next, you will have a bit of time to visit another attraction of your choice in Muscat. We opted to visit the Amouage Perfume factory for a free tour, as Max is very interested in perfumery. It was excellent, and well worth a visit if you are interested in learning more about the worlds most expensive perfumes. Alternatively, visit the Royal Opera House, one of Muscat’s many museums, or hit up Yiti beach on route to campsite 1.
Before leaving Muscat, make sure you are well stocked with food, water and fuel. In Mia’s opinion, Oman has the best supermarkets in the world (we enjoyed them more than the legendary Japanese stores). Lulu’s is undoubtedly the best – stop in for everything you need and a cheap lunch ($1 USD shwarma, yes we ate here most days on the road!).
Let the road trip begin! Make your way to the beautiful Wadi Dayqah Dam – this takes about 1hr 30min (112km) and will give you an idea of what to expect over the next 2 weeks!
After enjoying the beautiful scenery, make your way to campsite 1, called ‘Camping Ground Nr Wadi Al Arbeieen and Dayqah Dam’. Camp on your own and enjoy the peaceful wilderness 🙂

The Sultan Qaboos Mosque, Muscat
Suggested Sloth Itinerary Day 3: Wadis, Sinkholes and Swims
Day 3 is a great one. Here is what we suggest:

1- Wake up to the sunrise, have your breakfast, pack your bags and head out to Wadi Al Abreein – one of the best wadis in Oman. The drive here is along an off-road track, but nothing your 4×4 can’t handle – click here to see where we parked (in shade).

Once there, enjoy the surrounding water (it’s pretty obvious when you get there!). There is a hike nearby, but it was too hot for us and the area around where we parked was lovely. We also met the nicest Omani man who wanted to show us all the areas where we could swim.

2) Once you have enjoyed the beauty of Wadi Al Abreein, make your way to the Bimmah Sinkhole. This is a great place for another swim and even a cliff dive if you are feeling brave! Beware, the fish here will nibble at your feet!

3) For the last leg of the day, head to the area around White Sand Beach. Choose a suitable spot for the night, and enjoy the peaceful surroundings – we even went snorkelling with turtles here (although you can only see them when they pop their heads up, as the water is murky due to the waves & sand). 


The Beautiful Wadi Al Abreein
Suggested Sloth Itinerary Day 4: Wadis and Turtles
Once again, you are in for a great day here…

Start packing ASAP – you want to get to your next destination, the fabulous Wadi Shab, as early as possible to avoid the crowds and, in our case, the heat! Once you are ready, put Wadi Shab on your sat nav – if you are camping near White Sand Beach, you are about 10 minutes away 🙂
Arrive at Wadi Shab – bring everything you need for a hike & swim – it takes about 30 minutes to reach the famous cave section, and this involves walking and swimming! Watch out for your car here – the goats may try to climb it!
Start by crossing the wadi by boat – 1 riyal each way! Then just follow the path (and probably some people) all the way. It’s pretty obvious where to go, but if you’re not sure just ask – we were actually adopted by a local guide and his tour was free!
Once you reach the famous cave, enjoy a swim in the most incredible blue water and some cliff jumping! Stay as long as you like, today is a more relaxed day.
When you are ready, swim, walk and boat your way back to your car. Next, enter Ras Al Jinz into your sat-nav and head there for an evening turtle-watching tour via the port town of Sur (and a Lulu’s for lunch!).
This evening we recommend a turtle watching tour, which can be booked at the centre for 8 riyal (£16 per person). While you may have a good experience, we found the other guests to be extremely careless and, by constantly using flash, ruined the tour for us. However, we did see a lot of turtles and it was still worth doing – but it has nothing on what you will be doing tomorrow!
Camp up outside the turtle reserve – the beaches here are protected and camping on them is illegal. 


Baby Turtle, Ras Al Jinz
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 5: Saving Turtles, More Wadis, and the Desert...
Now this is an EPIC day.

Begin by waking up at sunset (it will be worth it), and heading here – now you will be able to watch the mama turtles lay their eggs and see babies hatch! (We actually went to the wrong beach, but this is where we should have gone). 
After respectfully observing the turtles, prepare for Mia’s highlight of the trip – rescuing any babies that didn’t make it (yet!). We spent a good 2 hours rescuing and returning 15 baby turtles to the water – an unforgettable experience.
After completing the day’s good deeds, head to Wadi Bani Khalid via Sur Lulu. This is a long stretch and your last chance to stock up on water and food before entering the desert. To get to Wadi Bani Khalid, go here, as it is not necessarily the clearest on maps.
This is one of the easiest wadis to access, so what to do here is pretty obvious. Have fun, and I recommend jumping off the bridge!
Next – the journey into the desert. PLEASE DO NOT LEAVE LATER THAN 1500, as you will need 1 hour to get to the town of Biddiyah, on the edge of the desert, and another hour to get to the desert campsite!
Once in Biddiyah, have your vehicle’s tyres deflated (the workers will know the pressures). THIS IS ESSENTIAL FOR DRIVING IN THE DESERT.
When ready, it is time to begin your journey through the desert to your camp, which is here (Near Thousnad Nights Camp). 
The drive to the campsite is fairly straightforward – just follow the signs to Thousand Nights Camp. At some point it will take you off the main road and up a hill and along a ridge. Be careful here as this was the only place we could have got stuck.

Sloth Scoop – The only place you will find scammers in Oman is when you enter the desert road to the camp. A large 4×4 will pull up next to you (we had a blue jeep pull up) and a man (a local Bedouin) will try to convince you that what you are about to do is too dangerous if you are inexperienced and will ask for money to help you drive in convoy. Please ignore him – it is not too dangerous. However, I would recommend taking his number, just in case…


Alone Amongst the Sand, Wahiba Sands
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 6: Leave the desert and hit the mountains
Get out of the desert before it gets too hot! Once again, the route is fairly clear. However, there is a steep descent before you reach the main road, so take it easy!

Next, head to the beautiful city of Nizwa – not just for a Lulu’s break, but also to visit the fantastic Nizwa Souq. This is the place to buy all your souvenirs!
After shopping, head up the mountains to the village of Saiq. For you Brits out there, this is where the late Lady Diana used to visit – now known as Diana’s Viewpoint. Enjoy the stunning scenery!
Find somewhere suitable to camp with a good view!

Diana's VIewpoint, Saiq, Jebel Akhdar
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 7: Nizwa, Mountains & Canyons
After a night in the mountains, get ready for some even higher ones! Here is what we recommend:

Spend the morning/early afternoon in and around Nizwa. We recommend a visit to the souq (again or for the first time) and the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Bahla Fort. Widely believed to be haunted, it’s well worth a visit (although we didn’t go inside).
Once finished in the Nizwa area, make your way to the highest peak in Oman: Jebel Shams. We recommend parking/camping here and getting an early night before one of the best hikes in Oman: the W6 Balcony Walk.
Sloth Suggestion: Once again, the goats in Jebel Shams will probably try to eat everything, so please don’t leave anything around your car at night!


Second Largest Canyon ITW, Jebel Shams
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 8: Hiking, Off roading & Wadis
Make sure you start today early, to avoid that heat!

Get up as early as possible and drive 10 minutes to the start of the hike, here. 
This is a fantastic walk and will give you fantastic views of the second largest canyon in the world! The route is very obvious – be prepared to spend about 1 hour each way.
Once recovered, we recommend driving to Wadi Damm – the car park is located here. This is an off-road drive… stick with it and you will be rewarded with some fabulous views.
Arrive at Wadi Damm for lunch and a 30-minute hike into the beautiful, tree- and plant-covered wadi. Stunning.
Then drive to tonights campsite, located here. This is a great place to camp, with great views and a good base for tomorrow’s adventure. Maps will give you two routes – we chose the longer one via the motorway, just in case the 4×4 route slowed us down too much (as it turned out, we did encounter some ridiculous rain/flash floods, but our Pajero powered through).

Campsite Sunset
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 9: Snake Canyon & An EPIC Drive
Today we recommend canyoning in the famous ‘Snake Canyon’ – named for its formation, not its inhabitants!

We used a guide called Sultan to organise our canyoning trip and you can contact him on whatsapp +986 9771 9611. We recommend the 5 hour tour which costs 35 OMR or £70/$90. On the day, Sultan was unable to join us, so he organised another guide from a separate company, ‘Oman Escapes’, who were excellent (although on their website they advertise the same service for £126/$166, so book directly through Sultan!)

The 5 hour tour includes abseiling, cliff jumping and more and was amazing. We ended up at our guides’ home for lunch and were even given a tour of the village known as Bald Sayt, which was a unique and beautiful experience – highly recommended! The tour starts around 0830 and ends around 1400.

2- After the canyoning, get ready for the best mountain road in Oman. I don’t want to spoil it too much, but take it slowly and in low gears and you’ll be rewarded with some of the best driving of your life.

For directions, plug here into you satnav, which is your campsite for the night, offering wonderful views of Jebel Shams. 


These Roads Were EPIC
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 10 - Last Day On The Northern Roads
Ah, the day has come to return to Muscat. Don’t worry though, you’ll be visiting one of our favourite wadis on the way!

1- Today is pretty simple – begin by driving around 1 hour to Wadi Hoqain, found here. Spend as much time as you like here, and make sure you swim as far up the wadi as you like, as it is truly beautiful!

2- Once you have finished, make your way back to Muscat, which will take around 1hr30.

3- If you are planning to take the night bus to Salalah the next day, go to the Mwasalat bus station in Rusail. This is important as you cannot buy these tickets online with a foreign card! 1 ticket costs around £25/$30 with luggage. If you want to fly (probably better than the bus) do it tomorrow night. As we were diving the next day, this was not an option for us.

4- With all logistics for tomorrow’s bus sorted, head into Muscat for anything you may have originally missed! 

Sloth Suggestion: If you are a fan of perfume, head to G Perfume Seeb, where you can make your own unique perfume for around £10! We had great fun doing this, and would highly recommend it.

5) Finally, having enjoyed Muscat and eaten dinner (I would not recommend where we ate, known as ‘Zahr El Laymoun Muscat’, head to tonight’s campsite on the beach, located here (find your perfect spot :)). This is ideal for diving/snorkelling the Daymaniat Islands on the next day 🙂


Bald Syat
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 11 - Scuba/Snorkel the Daymaniat Islands
The last day in the north is a beautiful one. Even if you don’t dive, be sure to visit the Daymaniat Islands for a snorkelling trip – they’re often referred to as the ‘Maldives of the Gulf’, and for good reason – they’re stunning.

I recommend Mola Mola Diving Centre in Muscat. Diving in Oman is relatively expensive (£120 all in for 2 dives) but for us it was worth it for the chance to see some amazing wildlife such as turtles and, if the season is right, whale sharks. Mola Mola are a very safe and professional company and I have no problem recommending them to anyone! Enjoy your day! (The tour finishes at around 1400hrs).

2- After visiting the islands it will be time to return your truck to Active Oman 🙁 When everything is done, make your way to the bus stop with some food as the bus leaves at 1700!

Sloth Scoop: Don’t worry too much about minor damage to the car – we had a few scratches etc from stones in the desert and mountains, but nothing was said about it!


Turtle We Spotted Whilst Diving!
Salalah - Days 12 - 14
Welcome to Southern Oman! If you are here between May and September, known as the Kharef monsoon season, it will be green! If not, it will still be beautiful 🙂 However, the prices will follow this beauty.

This place is magical – over the next three days you will explore the area, first heading east for wadis and viewpoints, then west to the Yemen border…

Where to stay in Salalah?

Budget/Midrange Option: Salalah Gardens Hotel (55 GBP/night)

This is where we stayed. It was perfect, and included a delicious free breakfast buffet!

High-end Option: Al Baleed Resort Salalah by Anantara (300 GBP/night)

Expensive, but a beautiful hotel by the beach!

Where to Eat!

Not surprisingly, we went to Lulu’s for lunch and snacks. For dinner, however, we recommend these two restaurants (especially if you want to eat camel!).

Restaurant number 9
Restaurant number 10
Simply put, these two restaurants are on a street full of local eateries. Both were excellent, especially the 3 riyal camel burgers at No.10!

Sloth Scoop: You WILL come across camels on the road! Take your time, let them do their thing and enjoy the moment! Be especially careful at night.

Sloth Tip: Get a cheap 2-wheel drive car – you don’t need a 4×4 for this part of the trip 🙂


Camels Are Everywhere in Salalah!
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 12 - East Salalah
With that in mind, here is what we suggest on day 1:

Your bus will arrive around 0600 – take an otaxi to the airport to pick up your rental car – book this for 3 days 🙂
Once in your rental car, check into your hotel. We recommend the Salah Gardens Hotel – we paid £110 for 2 nights. If needed, have a nap.
Once ready, make your way to the wonderful Wadi Darbat – one of the most beautiful in the country. Unfortunately, swimming is not allowed here due to bacteria in the water.
Following this, drive to the wonderful Jabal Samhan viewpoint. We got some lovely photos here.
Next, drive via Gravity Hill point – leave your car in neutral and watch it go uphill. Max had a lot of fun here.
Head straight back to Salalah, or if you are interested in history, visit Mirbat – famous for the Battle of Mirbat during the Dhofar Rebellion in the 1960/70s.
Once ready, head over to Restaurant No.9 or 10!
Get an early night… tomorrow is an EPIC, but a lot of driving.

Wadi Darbat
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 13 - Go West..
The last full day of your Oman adventure – perhaps the most adventurous yet.

Today your goal is to make it to the Yemen/Oman border. Before you do, please consider the current political situation. This is an open border and should be safe – but the ever-changing situation in the region and in Yemen can never guarantee 100% safety. However, if you can go, it is incredible.

Leave as early as you can – it is a 2.5hr drive to our first stop, the petrol station 3km away from the Yemen border. Make sure you fill up as you don’t want to run out of fuel on the way home! We recommend that you start the longest leg early so that you have enough time to get home in the light 🙂
The big one.. drive the 3km to this road, near the Border Crossing Station. This is 700m from the border, which is probably close enough!
Having looked at Yemen, check out the remains of this old Russian Mi8 helicopter that is wrecked at Dhalkut beach from the 1960/70s Dhofar Rebellion. Awesome IMO. 
Next, drive to the lovely named viewpoint at Shaat, before stopping at the Mughsail Beach blowholes!
Finally, head here near Salalah beach – a drive-thru Banana and Coconut shop! So cheap and so unique!
Make your way to your hotel, and once ready, check out Restaurant No.10 or 9!
Sloth Suggestion: Bring your passports – you will drive through military checkpoints 4 times today.


Wrecked Russian Mi8 Helicopter
Sloth Suggested Itinerary Day 14 - The Final Day in Oman
It is time to say goodbye 🙁 We hope you had the best time.

Depending on your flight time, you may want to consider visiting the local markets or beaches (unless it is Kharef, when you cannot swim).

Thank you for reading our Oman itinerary. We had the best time ever on this trip, and i hope some of you readers are able to do this for yourselves. I promise you wont regret it. .

Sloths of Love, Team Sloth <3
