Leaving Qatar Airport on a 2-3 Hour Layover... Is it Possible?
To cut a long story short… Yes, it is! Despite there being NOTHING on the internet about it, and against the advice of the Qatar Helpdesk… if you are stopping over in Qatar for a 2/3 hour layover, that should be enough time to go through immigration, get your visa and passport stamped, OFFICIALLY feel the “fan-oven” like heat, and tick Qatar off your list.

But Why on Earth Would Someone Want to do This?
Well, if you’re anything like Max, here are a few reasons:

1) You Are Trying to Speed Run the Road to 197
SLOTH SCOOP: Visiting the airport does not count as visiting a country

At least in Max’s eyes…

Ah, the age-old debate and point of contention between the two sloths. While many (foolishly) believe that simply sitting in the no-man’s-land of an international airport is enough, I (Max) firmly believe that you have to get stamped at immigration before you can say that you have been to a country.

Of course, this is a loose definition and everyone is free to interpret this travel rule as they wish. However, those of you who follow Max’s rules will find this guide extremely useful.

2) If You Are Unable to Stay the Night in Qatar
On a more serious note, it may not be an option to stay in Qatar for an extended period of time.

We chose not to, as unmarried couples are not allowed to stay in the same hotel room, thus doubling our expenses. As students, we decided to spend an extra night in Max’s favourite country: Oman!

In addition, members of the LGBTQ+ community who want to reach 197 but don’t want to spend a lot of time in Qatar could also benefit from trying this 🙂


We Made it!
So, How Do You "Enter" Qatar With Limited Time?
Very easily! Here are the Sloth Steps:

Sloth Step 1 = Get off the plane as quickly as possible and make your way to immigration. Assuming you are on a layover flight, there is no stress/need to get your checked-in luggage!

Sloth Step 2: Go through immigration. The immigration officer will ask you: “How long are you staying?”. I replied with “10 minutes sir” (say this at your own risk!), which got me a grumble, BUT IMPORTANTLY, A FREE VISA!

Sloth Step 3: Exit, feel the heat, take a photo, get a pin from the shop and hurry back to arrivals!

That’s it – pretty simple, but follow this guide at your own risk (the Sloths are not liable for any missed flights).

For more information on Qatar, click here 🙂
Sloths Of Love <3
